<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX: Mr. Sampson Levi Bids Prince Eugen Good Morning</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi Bids Prince Eugen Good Morning</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Prince Eugen started. “I will see him,” he said, with a gesture to Hans as if to indicate that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi might enter at once.</p>
			<p>“I beg one moment first,” said Aribert, laying a hand gently on his nephew’s arm, and giving old Hans a glance which had the effect of precipitating that admirably trained servant through the doorway.</p>
			<p>“What is it?” asked Prince Eugen crossly. “Why this sudden seriousness? Don’t forget that I have an appointment with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi, and must not keep him waiting. Someone said that punctuality is the politeness of princes.”</p>
			<p>“Eugen,” said Aribert, “I wish you to be as serious as I am. Why cannot we have faith in each other? I want to help you. I have helped you. You are my titular Sovereign; but on the other hand I have the honour to be your uncle: I have the honour to be the same age as you, and to have been your companion from youth up. Give me your confidence. I thought you had given it me years ago, but I have lately discovered that you had your secrets, even then. And now, since your illness, you are still more secretive.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean, Aribert?” said Eugen, in a tone which might have been either inimical or friendly. “What do you want to say?”</p>
			<p>“Well, in the first place, I want to say that you will not succeed with the estimable <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi.”</p>
			<p>“Shall I not?” said Eugen lightly. “How do you know what my business is with him?”</p>
			<p>“Suffice it to say that I know. You will never get that million pounds out of him.”</p>
			<p>Prince Eugen gasped, and then swallowed his excitement. “Who has been talking? What million?” His eyes wandered uneasily round the room. “Ah!” he said, pretending to laugh. “I see how it is. I have been chattering in my delirium. You mustn’t take any notice of that, Aribert. When one has a fever one’s ideas become grotesque and fanciful.”</p>
			<p>“You never talked in your delirium,” Aribert replied; “at least not about yourself. I knew about this projected loan before I saw you in Ostend.”</p>
			<p>“Who told you?” demanded Eugen fiercely.</p>
			<p>“Then you admit that you are trying to raise a loan?”</p>
			<p>“I admit nothing. Who told you?”</p>
			<p>“Theodore Racksole, the millionaire. These rich men have no secrets from each other. They form a coterie, closer than any coterie of ours, Eugen, and far more powerful. They talk, and in talking they rule the world, these millionaires. They are the real monarchs.”</p>
			<p>“Curse them!” said Eugen.</p>
			<p>“Yes, perhaps so. But let me return to your case. Imagine my shame, my disgust, when I found that Racksole could tell me more about your affairs than I knew myself. Happily, he is a good fellow; one can trust him; otherwise I should have been tempted to do something desperate when I discovered that all your private history was in his hands. Eugen, let us come to the point; why do you want that million? Is it actually true that you are so deeply in debt? I have no desire to improve the occasion. I merely ask.”</p>
			<p>“And what if I do owe a million?” said Prince Eugen with assumed valour.</p>
			<p>“Oh, nothing, my dear Eugen, nothing. Only it is rather a large sum to have scattered in ten years, is it not? How did you manage it?”</p>
			<p>“Don’t ask me, Aribert. I’ve been a fool. But I swear to you that the woman whom you call ‘the lady in the red hat’ is the last of my follies. I am about to take a wife, and become a respectable Prince.”</p>
			<p>“Then the engagement with Princess Anna is an accomplished fact?”</p>
			<p>“Practically so. As soon as I have settled with Levi, all will be smooth. Aribert, I wouldn’t lose Anna for the Imperial throne. She is a good and pure woman, and I love her as a man might love an angel.”</p>
			<p>“And yet you would deceive her as to your debts, Eugen?”</p>
			<p>“Not her, but her absurd parents, and perhaps the Emperor. They have heard rumours, and I must set those rumours at rest by presenting to them a clean sheet.”</p>
			<p>“I am glad you have been frank with me, Eugen,” said Prince Aribert, “but I will be plain with you. You will never marry the Princess Anna.”</p>
			<p>“And why?” said Eugen, supercilious again.</p>
			<p>“Because her parents will not permit it. Because you will not be able to present a clean sheet to them. Because this Sampson Levi will never lend you a million.”</p>
			<p>“Explain yourself.”</p>
			<p>“I propose to do so. You were kidnapped⁠—it is a horrid word, but we must use it⁠—in Ostend.”</p>
			<p>“True.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know why?”</p>
			<p>“I suppose because that vile old red-hatted woman and her accomplices wanted to get some money out of me. Fortunately, thanks to you, they didn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Not at all,” said Aribert. “They wanted no money from you. They knew well enough that you had no money. They knew you were the naughty schoolboy among European Princes, with no sense of responsibility or of duty towards your kingdom. Shall I tell you why they kidnapped you?”</p>
			<p>“When you have done abusing me, my dear uncle.”</p>
			<p>“They kidnapped you merely to keep you out of England for a few days, merely to compel you to fail in your appointment with Sampson Levi. And it appears to me that they succeeded. Assuming that you don’t obtain the money from Levi, is there another financier in all Europe from whom you can get it⁠—on such strange security as you have to offer?”</p>
			<p>“Possibly there is not,” said Prince Eugen calmly. “But, you see, I shall get it from Sampson Levi. Levi promised it, and I know from other sources that he is a man of his word. He said that the money, subject to certain formalities, would be available till⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Till?”</p>
			<p>“Till the end of June.”</p>
			<p>“And it is now the end of July.”</p>
			<p>“Well, what is a month? He is only too glad to lend the money. He will get excellent interest. How on earth have you got into your sage old head this notion of a plot against me? The idea is ridiculous. A plot against me? What for?”</p>
			<p>“Have you ever thought of Bosnia?” asked Aribert coldly.</p>
			<p>“What of Bosnia?”</p>
			<p>“I need not tell you that the King of Bosnia is naturally under obligations to Austria, to whom he owes his crown. Austria is anxious for him to make a good influential marriage.”</p>
			<p>“Well, let him.”</p>
			<p>“He is going to. He is going to marry the Princess Anna.”</p>
			<p>“Not while I live. He made overtures there a year ago, and was rebuffed.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; but he will make overtures again, and this time he will not be rebuffed. Oh, Eugen! can’t you see that this plot against you is being engineered by some persons who know all about your affairs, and whose desire is to prevent your marriage with Princess Anna? Only one man in Europe can have any motive for wishing to prevent your marriage with Princess Anna, and that is the man who means to marry her himself.” Eugen went very pale.</p>
			<p>“Then, Aribert, do you mean to convey to me that my detention in Ostend was contrived by the agents of the King of Bosnia?”</p>
			<p>“I do.”</p>
			<p>“With a view to stopping my negotiations with Sampson Levi, and so putting an end to the possibility of my marriage with Anna?”</p>
			<p>Aribert nodded.</p>
			<p>“You are a good friend to me, Aribert. You mean well. But you are mistaken. You have been worrying about nothing.”</p>
			<p>“Have you forgotten about Reginald Dimmock?”</p>
			<p>“I remember you said that he had died.”</p>
			<p>“I said nothing of the sort. I said that he had been assassinated. That was part of it, my poor Eugen.”</p>
			<p>“Pooh!” said Eugen. “I don’t believe he was assassinated. And as for Sampson Levi, I will bet you a thousand marks that he and I come to terms this morning, and that the million is in my hands before I leave London.” Aribert shook his head.</p>
			<p>“You seem to be pretty sure of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Levi’s character. Have you had much to do with him before?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” Eugen hesitated a second, “a little. What young man in my position hasn’t had something to do with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi at one time or another?”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t,” said Aribert.</p>
			<p>“You! You are a fossil.” He rang a silver bell. “Hans! I will receive <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi.”</p>
			<p>Whereupon Aribert discreetly departed, and Prince Eugen sat down in the great velvet chair, and began to look at the papers which Hans had previously placed upon the table.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, your Royal Highness,” said Sampson Levi, bowing as he entered. “I trust your Royal Highness is well.”</p>
			<p>“Moderately, thanks,” returned the Prince.</p>
			<p>In spite of the fact that he had had as much to do with people of Royal blood as any plain man in Europe, Sampson Levi had never yet learned how to be at ease with these exalted individuals during the first few minutes of an interview. Afterwards, he resumed command of himself and his faculties, but at the beginning he was invariably flustered, scarlet of face, and inclined to perspiration.</p>
			<p>“We will proceed to business at once,” said Prince Eugen. “Will you take a seat, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Levi?”</p>
			<p>“I thank your Royal Highness.”</p>
			<p>“Now as to that loan which we had already practically arranged⁠—a million, I think it was,” said the Prince airily.</p>
			<p>“A million,” Levi acquiesced, toying with his enormous watch chain.</p>
			<p>“Everything is now in order. Here are the papers and I should like to finish the matter up at once.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly, your Highness, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“But what? You months ago expressed the warmest satisfaction at the security, though I am quite prepared to admit that the security is of rather an unusual nature. You also agreed to the rate of interest. It is not everyone, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Levi, who can lend out a million at 5½ percent. And in ten years the whole amount will be paid back. I⁠—er⁠—I believe I informed you that the fortune of Princess Anna, who is about to accept my hand, will ultimately amount to something like fifty millions of marks, which is over two million pounds in your English money.” Prince Eugen stopped. He had no fancy for talking in this confidential manner to financiers, but he felt that circumstances demanded it.</p>
			<p>“You see, it’s like this, your Royal Highness,” began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi, in his homely English idiom. “It’s like this. I said I could keep that bit of money available till the end of June, and you were to give me an interview here before that date. Not having heard from your Highness, and not knowing your Highness’s address, though my German agents made every inquiry, I concluded that you had made other arrangements, money being so cheap this last few months.”</p>
			<p>“I was unfortunately detained at Ostend,” said Prince Eugen, with as much haughtiness as he could assume, “by⁠—by important business. I have made no other arrangements, and I shall have need of the million. If you will be so good as to pay it to my London bankers⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’m very sorry,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi, with a tremendous and dazzling air of politeness, which surprised even himself, “but my syndicate has now lent the money elsewhere. It’s in South America⁠—I don’t mind telling your Highness that we’ve lent it to the Chilean government.”</p>
			<p>“Hang the Chilean government, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Levi,” exclaimed the Prince, and he went white. “I must have that million. It was an arrangement.”</p>
			<p>“It was an arrangement, I admit,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi, “but your Highness broke the arrangement.”</p>
			<p>There was a long silence.</p>
			<p>“Do you mean to say,” began the Prince with tense calmness, “that you are not in a position to let me have that million?”</p>
			<p>“I could let your Highness have a million in a couple of years’ time.”</p>
			<p>The Prince made a gesture of annoyance. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Levi,” he said, “if you do not place the money in my hands tomorrow you will ruin one of the oldest of reigning families, and, incidentally, you will alter the map of Europe. You are not keeping faith, and I had relied on you.”</p>
			<p>“Pardon me, your Highness,” said little Levi, rising in resentment, “it is not I who have not kept faith. I beg to repeat that the money is no longer at my disposal, and to bid your Highness good morning.”</p>
			<p>And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson Levi left the audience chamber with an awkward, aggrieved bow. It was a scene characteristic of the end of the nineteenth century⁠—an overfed, commonplace, pursy little man who had been born in a Brixton semidetached villa, and whose highest idea of pleasure was a Sunday up the river in an expensive electric launch, confronting and utterly routing, in a hotel belonging to an American millionaire, the representative of a race of men who had fingered every page of European history for centuries, and who still, in their native castles, were surrounded with every outward circumstance of pomp and power.</p>
			<p>“Aribert,” said Prince Eugen, a little later, “you were right. It is all over. I have only one refuge⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You don’t mean⁠—” Aribert stopped, dumbfounded.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I do,” he said quickly. “I can manage it so that it will look like an accident.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
